Re: [anime-social] It's time for ideas for next semester!
I'll do the same as Quartz, for similar reasons:


> *Terra e*


It's an adaptation of a 70's manga. So the style is different, and it may
not seem as "clever" as shows today, or perhaps a little aged. Important
factors to keep in mind. I *do* like it, though, because it focuses on
character sufficiently, so that the articulation/elucidation of important
questions (what I think is the point of a good story) still seems fresh,
and not stale.


> *Denpa Onna to Seishun Otoko*


Don't get sucked in. Or consider a range of reactions to it...possibly. I
love those kinds of shows, and I fell asleep during the preview (*I*
suggested the title) -- which made me the butt of very mild laughter. I was
probably poorly rested, but we never recovered to the point of actually
wanting to screen. Moe, true, but also a lot of Shaft being Shaft and
Shinbo being Shinbo. Also, were you guys really into it? My memories are
fuzzy from all the tiredness back then, so I don't remember. It's the show
with the girl in the futon who claims to be an alien. *spoiler* rando panty
shot

Minami-ke


I'm a big fan of the first anime adaptation ("I AM BOSS" and all), but the
subsequent three were appropriated by the studio Asread. As one might
expect, the change in artwork shows, and it kind of turned me away, so that
now I read the manga -- something I didn't expect. Never got far enough
into the sequels to be able to label all of the differences, I should say.
Most of the Minami-ke memes, though, I would wager to be from the first
series.

*Blood-C*


It's worth seeing if you're familiar with the film/first anime series.
People say you don't have to, but it is important to note -- especially
with people familiar with the series -- that it is *Blood as conceived by
CLAMP*. However you all decide, you need to consider the patterns,
character designs, tropes or whatever by those terms. It's short, though,
and it's by Production I.G. These are pluses.

"life is a journey not a destination" and treated it literally


Kind of interesting; it's sort of a "Little Prince" reaction. It's almost a
weird sort of picaresque (low or strange hero faced with corrupt situation
after corrupt situation), except...even now, I'm not sure what she really
learns, though. Not clearly. It's almost like the point of the story is the
story, or the reverse of that, or something. KJ might seem more "focused"
than something like Aria or Binchou-tan...but that isn't an entirely sure
conclusion. Again, this comes down to tastes and the votes.

a lot of eps make indirect references and jokes about stuff that happened
> earlier, so people might still get lost


Agree. Another negative point.

*Zetsuen no Tempest *- it's literally like watching some Shakespeare play
> in anime form


Oh, man, this pushes both of my buttons (1) mixing/distorting media types
and (2) risk of bloated director head/inconsideration toward character
motivations and arcs. Haven't watched much of this, though, so I don't have
the right to rant.

*Btooom! *- A lot of explosions.


Didn't come across many encouraging ep reviews. Dunno; could be that, long
as you watch it for that, no one will be much disappointed, and will
probably be very entertained.

(airing)


Yeah. Hard and fast rules are unnecessary, but it's always good to get some
variety in there, age-wise. Which is why I'm for Quartz giving 90's
suggestions. Then again, his point about enjoyment by younger audiences is
important.

constarch monster


Hee

I take that back.


Well, the whole thing depends. It's definitely something to think about, in
fact, I sense that what Quartz noted happens more often these years --
although eps are much easier to obtain, so not to the point of year-long
delays (I would hope, since I've only recently tried to ease back into
watching old dubs). Do you have a stance on licensed stuff?

Spice and Wolf


That trend again, lol. Quartz, do you want to explain?

Chris

On Sat, Dec 1, 2012 at 3:13 PM, Josh Speagle <joshspeagle@gmail.com> wrote:

> Denpa Onna to Seishun Otoko
_______________________________________________
anime-social mailing list
anime-social@lists.hcs.harvard.edu
https://lists.hcs.harvard.edu/mailman/listinfo/anime-social
