[AAA-open] The Challenges of Entering China's Booming Film Market
*The Challenges of Entering China's Booming Film Market*

*
*

*Time: *Saturday, Dec 8, 6-7 PM

*Location: *Harvard Business School, Aldrich 110



With $2 billion in box office revenues in 2011, China is on a path to
surpass the US as the top movie market sometime in the next decade. While
there is a HUGE opportunity for film companies and producers in China,
making entertainment in and for the market is complicated to say the least.
 Tracey Trench, lead consultant for Oriental Dreamworks, will give an
overview of the current film business in China and discuss how filmmakers
are navigating the combination of art, commerce and politics in an attempt
to crack the fastest growing film market in the world.



*Tracey Trench bio:*

* *

TRACEY TRENCH has produced a range of entertainment including film,
television, theater, and documentary - combined they have grossed nearly a
billion dollars worldwide. She has a strong background in both running
companies and managing productions.



The daughter of two schoolteachers from Indiana, she graduated from Harvard
University with an honors degree in Social Anthropology. She also earned an
M.B.A. from the UCLA Anderson Graduate School of Management. She speaks
several languages and has traveled extensively, working as a baker's
apprentice in Paris and teaching English in China. She is currently
consulting to Oriental Dreamworks, Jeffrey Katzenberg=92s new Shanghai stud=
io
venture and is also acting as a liaison between the Hong Kong Trade
Development Council and Hollywood. In addition, she is a guest lecturer and
advisor at UCLA's Graduate Producers Program - focusing on international
students.



Before becoming a producer, Tracey was a studio executive at Twentieth
Century Fox, where she developed and nurtured the idea of franchise family
comedies, including =93The Power Rangers=94 series. During this time, as a
personal project, she financed and produced the award-winning documentary
"Fear and Learning at Hoover Elementary," about a ten-year-old immigrant
girl in L.A.=92s poorest neighborhood. The film won the Freedom of Expressi=
on
Award at the Sundance Film Festival, an Emmy nomination, and the
DuPont-Columbia Award - given out by the same committee that selects the
Pulitzer Prize. It is also listed as one of the top ten best films on
American race relations by the Rockefeller Foundation.



Her skill at producing a rich story on a very limited budget impressed top
executives Peter Chernin and Bill Mechanic at Fox who offered her the
opportunity to produce the Cinderella-themed dramedy =93Ever After.=94 The =
film
was shot in the medieval Perigord region of France, starring Drew
Barrymore, Dougray Scott and Angelica Huston with Andy Tennant (=93Hitch,=
=94
=93Sweet Home Alabama=94) directing. It was a complicated shoot that involv=
ed
actors and crew from five countries, international sale/lease-back deals
and other production complexities. Tracey delivered the film on time and on
budget. It became a sleeper hit for Fox, grossing over $100 million
worldwide.



Soon, Tracey became President of Robert Simonds=92 production company.
Together, they set a new goal of moving away from the boy comedies he was
specializing in to developing family and franchise comedies. During their
time together, they produced ten films including the comedy hits =93The Pin=
k
Panther,=94 =93Yours, Mine and Ours,=94 =93Cheaper by the Dozen,=94 =93Herb=
ie, Fully
Loaded,=94 and =93Just Married.=94



Tracey also has experience making live theater, and she was on the Lead
Producers team for the complicated journey which took the wildly odd and
engaging Albert Maysles documentary on the Beales of =91Grey Gardens=91 and
turned it into a whimsical Broadway musical comedy. The show won three
Tonys.  In television, she recently set up a development slate with
Lionsgate and various networks. Her first show premiered on BRAVO in 2011,
with two more series to air in 2013.  She is currently in production on
Preachers=92 Wives for Lifetime.
_______________________________________________
AAA-open mailing list
AAA-open@lists.hcs.harvard.edu
https://lists.hcs.harvard.edu/mailman/listinfo/aaa-open
