[hasa-talk] NEWEST SUMMER STUDY ABROAD PROGRAM: South Africa with
	the Comaroffs!!!!
Please come out to the info session tomorrow; this is seriously an
unprecedented opportunity to be in Africa, critically learning about South
Africa and the world from some of the most radical critics of neoliberalism
at Harvard!
Details below:

[image: Inline image 2]

http://www.summer.harvard.edu/programs/study-abroad/south-africa****

*Perspectives from the global south: an introduction to African societies
and culture*

Faculty<http://www.summer.harvard.edu/programs/study-abroad/south-africa#fa=
culty>:
Jean Comaroff, John Comaroff, David Bunn****

Over the course of nine weeks, students participating in the South Africa
program engage in rigorous intellectual exploration, in both formal and
informal settings throughout the country, from a multidisciplinary
perspective. The program investigates South Africa=92s experience as a new
democracy; the cultural, economic, and political past-and-present of its
indigenous populations; and what its contemporary history has to teach the
world at large about a range of critical social issues.****

South Africa provides a fascinating and unique context within which to
examine African societies and cultures, and to understand the legacy of
colonialism on twenty-first-century social and political institutions. This
program uses various locales across the nation-state=97from Cape Town to
Johannesburg, from the Kruger National Park to the Hamakuya chiefdom=97to
introduce students to contemporary Africa. The first six weeks of the
program include intensive coursework as well as a proseminar, which will
include lectures by major South African public intellectuals and excursions
to sites of historical and cultural significance. For the remaining weeks,
participants in the program will embark on a pedagogic safari, traveling to
the northeastern edges of the country to experience life in a rural
chiefdom as well as explore the Kruger National Park.****

The program is led by a team of professors and supported by additional
local staff. It aims to create a reflective environment for students to
relate their experiences and, thus, gain a deeper understanding of their
lives back home in the United States.****

*Course of study*

The final, experiential learning, portion of the program is a pedagogic
safari in Johannesburg and Limpopo Province. It begins in Johannesburg,
Africa=92s major metropolis, and is devoted to exploring the urban ecology =
of
apartheid and post-apartheid South Africa, focusing on the ways in which
race and class inflect the cityscapes of the country. This theme is picked
up over the following weeks in non-urban contexts, the first of which is an
extended journey to the Kruger National Park, where participants are
introduced to the making of =93nature=94 and the production of landscape
through the past 80 years of South African history. Students are introduced
to the management of the wild animals that occupy this landscape.
Thereafter, the group settles into their homestays at the chiefdom of
Hamakuya, and do mini-ethnographic exercises on life in postcolonial
Africa, some of which relates back to the Cape Town coursework.****

*AAAS S-171 Study Abroad in South Africa: Pre-colonial and Colonial
Perspectives on African Economy, Society, Politics, and Law (32951)*

John Comaroff****

(4 credits: UN, GR) Limited enrollment.****

This course explores precolonial and colonial African societies, examining
their social organization; political and legal systems; economies; and more
generally their cultural orders. It begins by interrogating popular
European images of Africa, and the ways in which the "precapitalist"
societies of the continent have been understood=97and colonized=97by Wester=
n
social scientists. Examples are drawn from different parts of the
continent, but particular attention will be paid to the to the Zulu, Sotho,
and Tswanapeoples of South Africa, and, by way of comparison, to the Nuer
of the Sudan and the Ndembu of Zambia. The relevance of understanding
"traditional" African practices for making sense of the African present,
and of the present and future of the global north, is a parallel theme of
the course throughout.****

*AAAS S-188 Study Abroad in South Africa: Colonialism and the Dialectics of
Modernity (32952)*

Jean Comaroff****

(4 credits: UN, GR) Limited enrollment.****

This course deals with the rise of African modernity. In the first week we
consider classic accounts of =93traditional=94 African cultures, in particu=
lar
the centrality accorded to religion, magic, and ritual. The course
encourages students to rethink accounts that place these worlds outside of
history, and seeks to track their complex engagement with international
forces of various kinds. In the second week, students explore the novel
cultural schemes and identities produced under colonial conditions, and the
forms of politics these conditions produced. The final week is devoted to
processes of decolonization and the growing impact on the continent of
global neoliberalism. This era has given rise to a distinctive postcolonial
modernity, which provides a unique perspective on the contemporary world
order.****

*Course credit*

See Study Abroad Credit
Information<http://www.summer.harvard.edu/programs/study-abroad/study-abroa=
d-credit-information>
.****

*Faculty*

*Jean Comaroff*, PhD, Professor of African and African American Studies and
of Anthropology, Harvard University****

*John Comaroff*, PhD, Professor of African and African American Studies and
of Anthropology, Harvard University****

*Application*

*The application will be available in early December.*****

Students must be at least 18 years old, have completed at least one year of
college or be a first-year student, and be in good academic standing to
apply.****

Applicants must have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.25, and be in
sufficiently robust physical condition to cope with a rural homestay.****

The application materials, outlined below, are due January 31, 2013:****

   - A completed online application (available in early December) that
   includes:****
      - A $50 nonrefundable application fee****
      - A statement of interest in the program, including information on
      relevant coursework and travel experience abroad (previous
travel is not a
      prerequisite)****
      - Transcripts (student
record<http://www.registrar.fas.harvard.edu/fasro/common/student_record.jsp=
?cat=3Dugrad&subcat=3Dinformation>
accepted
      for Harvard students)****

Successful candidates will be asked for interviews.****

Students will be notified of admission decisions by mid-February.****

*Cost*

There is a nonrefundable $50 application fee. The cost of the program
includes the following:****

   - Tuition****
   - Accommodation and some meals, including all meals in the Kruger
   National Park and Hamakuya Chiefdom****
   - Excursions (including meals when appropriate)****

In addition to the program fee, students are responsible for:****

   - A health insurance fee (waived if students have US insurance that
   provides coverage outside the United States)****
   - Transportation to and from South Africa, as well as domestic flights
   in South Africa****
   - The cost of passports and visas (if the latter is needed). US citizens
   will enter on a visitor visa for free.****
   - Any immunizations****

*Suggested budget*

A sample budget will be provided in early January.****

*How to pay and funding options*

See Funding and
Payment<http://www.summer.harvard.edu/programs/study-abroad/funding-and-pay=
ment>
for
payment deadlines, deposit amounts, and more information, including funding
options for Harvard College students.****

*Accommodations*

Students live in various housing arrangements at different points of the
program. While in Cape Town and Johannesburg, the group stays in guest
houses. Students then stay in rest or research camps while in the Kruger
National Park. While at the Hamakuya chiefdom, students split their time
between a tented research camp and a homestay.****

*Additional information*

Contact Maggie Tabach, mtabach@fas.harvard.edu.****

**
_______________________________________________
african-talk mailing list
african-talk@lists.hcs.harvard.edu
https://lists.hcs.harvard.edu/mailman/listinfo/african-talk
http://www.hcs.harvard.edu/~hasa/site/
